
# C++

Nearly all C++ projects require a C++11-compliant compiler and
standard library. Specific requirements are given in the project's
README.

API documentation is generated by Doxygen. For C++11 compliance,
you'll need the newest version (projects are on 1.8.5). Use the
`doc/build.sh` script to generate HTML.

## Support

As far as plash knows, none of his projects support Windows/MSVC. This is
primarily due to Microsoft's lack of C++11 support.

duct++ is the one of the few projects that supports GCC and libstdc++.¹ Clang
is required for almost everything else due to either libstdc++'s lack of C++11
support or ceformat's human rights violations. The latter concern may be more
easily addressed when C++1y lands with relaxed constexpr constraints, but
sufficient cries of agony may sway plash into making ceformat support GCC by
making the constexpr artwork configurably constexpr.

libstdc++ may be supported for some projects that require Clang, but it's best
to use libc++ -- especially on Linux.

## Toolchain setup

All C++ projects use Premake 4.4-beta4 with precore for the build system.
Premake generates a platform-specific makefile or project file (VS, Xcode) from
a Premake script, which uses Lua. precore is a set of extensions to simplify
Premake scripts.

1. Install Premake 4.4-beta4+ from http://industriousone.com/premake/download.
2. `$ git clone https://github.com/komiga/precore.git` to somewhere sane.
3. Add `PRECORE_ROOT` to your `.bashrc` pointing to precore's root. This is
   required by the Premake scripts to import precore.

Next you should install Clang 3.3+ and libc++. The current stable Clang should
do, but the latest SVN revision (read: unstable) of libc++ is preferred. If
you're on Linux, see "Build on Linux using …" here: http://libcxx.llvm.org.

Once everything is working properly, the build steps are:

1. `$ premake4 [options] <generate-action>`.
2. `$ make [config=...]` or compile with your IDE.

Libraries will likely have build configurations for debug/release and
architecture. With GNU make, an x86_64 debug build would be
`$ make config=debug64`. The native-arch debug config should be the default.

If you want to compile with Clang using GNU make, it's a bit hacky because
Premake doesn't currently support it. You'll have to first:

```
$ export CC=clang CXX=clang++
```

And then run Premake with (assuming libc++):

```
$ premake4 --clang --stdlib=c++ gmake
```

The previous command uses `opt-clang` from precore. C++11 projects will also
use `c++11-core` from precore (implicitly) to specify `-std=c++11` for Linux
and Mac OS.

## Footnotes

1: This might not be accurate to the latest GCC and libstdc++. If a project
builds with a GCC/libstdc++ version greater than 4.7.3, let plash know.
